Mind-blowing advanced CGI? Check. An accomplished and highly regarded sci-fi director? Got him. An astronomical budget? Through the roof.

Sound like the formula for the next sci-fi cult classic? If so, then you forgot the same vital ingredients the creators of Valerian did: a compelling storyline and an engaging cast.

While the film was wrought with intriguing futuristic concepts and beautiful design, its visuals weren't enough to make up for the poor acting and sub par writing. Both starring actors, Cara Delevingne and Dane DeHaan, gave underwhelming performances. They failed to bring any charisma to their characters, establishing no chemistry with the audience or each other. They are not solely responsible for the flat tone of the film, however. After all, the script gave them little to work with.

We first meet Major Valerian and Sergeant Lorelaine while they are enjoying a virtual beach. A playful, choreographed wrestling match ensues, sparking hope for a sexy sort of tension. Unfortunately, that was the epitome of chemistry, and the rest of the film lacks any hint of flirtation, arousal or even close friendship. Even when he proposes marriage, there is no sense of romance, love or excitement. In fact, the only catalyst for his proposition is to combat Lorelaine for calling out his fear of commitment. What a great foundation for marriage, saving face. The lack of emotion isn’t limited to the title character, however. This sense of apathy expands through the length of the film. I would argue that this is due to a complete absence of backstory.

The gaping deficit of context surrounding the characters inhibits the viewer from empathizing with them. The information hole was so distracting that I actually turned to my partner to ask if the movie was a sequel. It seemed as though the title character was intended to be a smooth, charming Casanova of sorts. His empty lines and blank history made it nearly impossible to frame him this way or even find him attractive hero. The heaviest collateral damage from this oversight came in the death of Rihanna’s character, Bubbles. Because our main character was so devoid of substance, his emotional response came across as cheesy. A moment that was inserted as a sentimental motif was just too little too late.

While the incredible imagery that accompanied this empty plot wasn’t enough to save the film, it does have merit and deserves some mention. Particularly, I found the technology presented very intriguing. Early on, we see a huge empty park in the desert with hundreds of people wandering around. It is then revealed that they are immersed in some kind of virtual travel to another dimension via a VR like headset. Even more fantastic is that they can purchase items and then somehow transport them back to their reality. Strangely enough though, their purchases are nothing exciting and seem a poor choice on the writer’s part. If one of the few redeeming qualities of your film is it’s science fiction concepts, why not have them purchase futuristic gadgets? Instead, they are excited about the pile of junk they’ve acquired. What a wasted opportunity.

There is no denying that Valerian was both innovative and technically impressive. It was fun to watch for the imagery alone. However, this doesn’t keep the film from feeling less like a cohesive and immersive story, and more like a highlight reel of a writers' rooms best sci-fi ideas.
