When I first walked away from Valerian and the City of a Thousand planets, I felt relieved.  Based on a comic book series of the same name, this adaptation contains very little to keep the audience engaged beyond the sex appeal that comes with flashy animations, handsome actors, and tip top visual design and direction.  This appeal fades quickly as the narrative, and dialog are not very engaging.

The main actors themselves deliver lines that feel sophomoric and are lacking poise and expertise of professional special forces agents. Valerian exudes a boastful air as a major in some galactic law enforcement institution, and comes across as Johnny Bravo.  He mentions his epic love life and his sky high aptitude as a special agent, but he is always unprepared and by sheer luck and the actions of those around him, he is able to succeed.  The problem with this is that the emotional resonance I have with this character is that of a stoic idiot with an enormous ego, which rubbed me the wrong way constantly.  I felt for Laureline as she complains about his behavior and attitude, until she somehow falls even more in love with him by the credits.  The advent of this decision brought about by a moral conflict/resolution between the two characters which felt contrived immediately.

I get that this is based on a comic, (which I have not read) and that for the most part the narrative of graphic novel can be allowed some leeway to showcase a more visually compelling experience, and in that sense this film is quite fun.  Character art and visual set pieces allow you to become lost and engrossed in the stories atmosphere and setting.  All of these aspects of the film are good, quite good, but there was a big gap for me in storytelling as Valerian and Laureline were just so one dimensional. I did not empathize with them and found myself wishing that they were replaced with different actors or received better direction or.. something.  Like watching two models blue steel their way through every and all situations, without a trail of breadcrumbs to connect the dots.
